# Starting my PhD
## Reflections
### 2024-08-22

This week marks the first week of me starting my PhD at CU Boulder. I've met
hundreds of extremely qualified, unique people that I can't even begin to
compare myself to. I'm quickly learning how easy it is to develop *imposter
syndrome*; with everyone being so skilled at such specific things, it's easy to
evaluate oneself based on some arbitrary criteria that may have no grounds being
applied to another's situation.

## My Father's Vocation

One example that comes to mind is with my father and I. My father built my
childhood home when he was in his late twenties from scratch. No matter how much
time I spend in the classroom, I **will never** be as good as he is at framing,
drywall, or any of those trades. Yet, he tells me consistently how much he
wishes he were "educated" so that he could have gone farther in life, i.e.
someone with forty plus years of highly specific experience can feel resentful
by the thought of four years of education. What if he had pursued a B.S. instead
of a tool belt? Things may have been differentâˆ’but he would have never built our
family home in the early 2000s, nor would he have been the same present, loving
father who supported his son to go to college.

## Wallowing in the Hypothetical

If I apply the logic around my dad's situation to mine, there is no need to feel
imposter syndrome in grad school. My lack of skills in some areas and abundance
in others has placed me directly where I'm supposed to be, although I have to
sit down multiple times a week to remind myself of that.

I think the book of Proverbs in the Bible has a good bit of wisdom about these
kinds of thoughts:

> Many are the plans in the mind of a man, but it is the purpose of the Lord
> that will stand.
>
> Proverbs 19:21 ESV

For my dad, perhaps it was meant to be that he stuck with his trade and better
supported his family. For me, perhaps there is a good reason I was given
different skills and experiences from my peers.

## Conclusion

We can conjure up images of who we think we *should* be without being thankful
for who we already are. By creating a mindset of gratitude for one's current
circumstances, feelings of imposter syndrome and resentment may fade, allowing
oneself to be present and fulfilled.
